factsheet what is aid ?
aid ( acquired immune deficiency syndrome ) is a condition caused by a virus called hiv ( human immuno deficiency virus ) .
this virus affect the body 's defence system so that it can not fight infection .
how is infection transmitted ?
through unprotected sexual intercourse with an infected partner .
through infected blood or blood product .
from an infected mother to her baby .
it is not transmitted from :
giving blood/mosquito bites/toilet seats/kissing/from normal day-to-day contact
how doe it affect you ?
the medical aspect can be cancer , pneumonia , sudden blindness , dementia , dramatic weight loss or any combination of these .
often infected people are rejected by family and friend , leaving them to face this chronic condition alone .
did you know ?
there is no vaccine or cure currently available .
10 million people worldwide are infected with hiv .
you can be infected for between 10–15 year without realising it .
7 out of 10 people infected are heterosexual .
woman are twice a at risk from infection a men .
in the uk
16,000 reported infection ( it is probable that there are between 40–60,000 people actually infected ) .
there are nearly 5,000 reported case of aid , of which nearly 3,000 have already died .
1 in 500 londoner are believed to be infected .
the future
the world health organisation project 40 million infection by the year 2000 .
‘ we are just at the beginning of the worldwide epidemic and the situation is still very unstable .
the major impact is yet to come . ’
— professor jonathan mann , former director of the who global aid programme and acet 's international adviser .
useful contact :
acet — practical home care , school education and training — 081 840 7879
mildmay hospital , hackney road , london e2 7na — hospice care — 071 739 2331
catholic aid link — spiritual , practical and financial support — p o box 646 , london e9 6qp
national aid helpline — counselling and confidential advice — 0800 567 123
bureau of hygiene and tropical medicine — overseas development — 071 636 8638
haemophilia society — serving the interest of haemophiliac — 071 928 2020
scoda — hiv and drug — 071 430 2341
immunity — hiv and legal issue — 081 968 8909
factsheet put the fun back in fundraising !
raising money for your favourite charity can be fun .
you can do it on your own or you can get together with family and friend .
there is no limit to the number of way to raise money .
whether the final total is £5 or £5,000 , it is all very much needed .
below i 've listed some idea which many people have already carried out .
none of them is new and they are all straightforward .
1 .
car boot sale
— why not have a clear out ?
i did and i wa absolutely amazed at how much stuff i sold and the kind of thing people bought .
it can be fun a well .
2 .
jumble sale
— a bit like a car boot sale but for clothes and it happens indoors .
you need to involve your friend collecting jumble .
do n't plan on selling too much at more than 10p an item .
3 .
sponsored run
— for the keen fun runner , why not get your next full or half marathon sponsored .
4 .
have a disco
— at your local club or church why not put on an evening for young people ?
it 's hard work but very rewarding .
5 .
a parachute jump
— not for the faint-hearted .
but why not pluck up the courage to do what you 've always wanted ?
it 's all in a good cause .
6 .
sponsored slim
7 .
hold a coffee morning or bake cake
to sell to work colleague .
8 .
kiddy ' sponsored swim
9 .
organise a sponsored walk or ramble
for your church or youth club .
10 .
sponsored disco marathon or football 5-a-side .
if i can help further please do not hesitate to contact me on 081 840 7879 peter fabian director of fundraising
factsheet becoming an acet home care volunteer
about acet 's home care
many people with aid have to spend long period of time in hospital unless there is someone at home who can help and look after them .
acet volunteer work a part of a team and provide help in many different way to ensure that people do n't spend time in hospital unnecessarily .
what do acet volunteer do ?
transport client to and from hospital
housework
shopping including collection of prescription
daysitting and nightsitting
how much time to i need to give ?
the simple answer is a much or a little a you feel able to give .
many of our existing volunteer have family and job and are often very busy .
you do n't have to make a firm commitment but obviously we like you to give u some idea of your availability .
this is so we can respond effectively to the need of our client .
do i need any training ?
yes — but you are not expected to be a nurse .
you will be asked to complete an application_form and subsequently to attend an acet training course one evening a week for six week .
the subject covered will include :
death and dying
grief and loss
sex and sexuality
medical aspect of hiv/aids
race and racism
practical issue
what if i find certain issue or situation difficult ?
your course leader will be available to help you .
you are also asked to keep your church leader informed of your involvement so that they can ensure you are adequately supported .
after every client visit you are asked to call the office so that you can report how the visit went .
we also hold regular meeting of volunteer to discus issue of concern and encourage one another .
volunteer visiting an acet client have immediate access to professional nursing support through our 24 hour on call facility .

telephone or write to christine catlin or janet sutton and ask for an application_form .
acet p o box 1323 london w5 5tf tel : 081 840 7879
newsletter aid care , education and training issue no . 7
cliff is new patron
cliff richard and head of salvation army , general eva burrow are the first patron of acet .
in the charity 's ealing office , cliff , with bbc newsroom south east television camera in attendance , cut a cake to help celebrate acet 's third birthday during june .
after a short interview with the bbc , cliff went to meet acet client tony chapman at his home , together with hiv community nurse , sue lore .
a trip to an acet aid education class at abbeylands school , addlestone in surrey , completed cliff 's visit .
cliff said , ‘ i am pleased to support acet in the world they are doing .
the care of people in the community , with are ill with hiv infection and aid , together with the education of schoolchildren to help prevent the spread of this terrible disease is becoming more and more urgent . ’
‘ i believe it is especially important that acet represents the church working in the front line to provide real and practical support .
so often christian are criticised for not getting involved . ’
cliff with dr patrick dixon , director of acet
glasgow home care
acet opened it glasgow home care service in late june after receiving confirmation of a grant from the greater glasgow health board to fund the work .
the ruchill hospital social work team and the aid resource unit were particularly helpful in identifying the need for this service .
home care coordinator , margaret gillie , currently ha a team of 20 volunteer from a variety of church providing practical help to a number of client already referred .
strathclyde regional council may provide further funding and consideration is being given to the possible employment of a part-time nurse .
margaret gillie say , ‘ we are discovering the extent of the need for the kind of help that acet offer from other support agency including scottish aid monitor and body positive a well a hospital contact and local counselling service . ’
chris southwick , director of acet ( scotland ) , said , ‘ with the opening of this office in glasgow , acet 's volunteer home care is now available to 95 % of those infected with the hiv virus in scotland . ’
most church unprepared for aid
‘ most church are completely unprepared for the shock of finding an established member of the congregation is infected with hiv or dying with aid , even though this is increasingly common . ’
acet director , dr patrick dixon , recently told the national symposium on teenage sexuality at swanwick .
the conference wa attended by 300 church youth leader and school worker from across the uk .
dr dixon said , ‘ with up to 20 year from infection to illness , we just have to ask how many of our congregation have been added during that time ?
three-quarters of the aid problem is in london and much of the rest in scottish city .
church in these area particularly need to be informed , involved in community care and supporting christian worker seeking to prevent new hiv infection in school . ’
the symposium considered how the church can communicate more effectively to young people today for the benefit of their safety and emotional health .
‘ many church are responding .
those involved with acet are now helping provide home care for one in four of all those dying with aid in the uk and up to 4,000 school pupil a month are now receiving education on the subject .
both programme are the largest of their kind in the country . ’
acet is currently offering speaker to inform , motivate , train and support .
church wanting a speaker should contact the west london office on 081 840 7879 .
third annual report published
the third annual report for 1990/91 , subtitled ‘ bringing it home ’ wa published on 21 june this year .
official figure suggest that acet provided care at home for up to one in four of all those who died of aid in the uk last year .
24,000 pupil were also seen by acet educator .
bulletin board
acet will shortly be opening a new office in the east end of london to serve client in north and east london .
nurse kay hopps will have responsibility for the running of the office .
the number of men , woman and child covered by home care with 24 hour on call ha doubled in a year .
acet south ( based in portsmouth ) will move into it new accommodation during july .
purchased by the portsmouth and south east hampshire area health authority , the building will be home to two other aid charity .
the team is caring for growing number ill on the south coast , including brighton .
the 24-page full colour school booklet ‘ hiv — it 's your choice ’ is now available to member of the public at a price of 50p each .
last year acet educator saw 24,500 pupil in face to face presentation .
the acet conference in may at the ealing ymca wa well attended by both staff and volunteer from london , the south east , northern ireland , scotland , romania and uganda .
uk director and organiser of the conference , peter johnson , said , ‘ for many , the day provided a reaffirmation of the vision for acet and a marvellous sense of unity .
it wa the first time our national and international network had gathered together in one place and made u all realise just how much the work ha grown . ’
three visitor from frankfurt , germany , recently visited acet 's office before returning home to begin a similar service , christian aid help ( cah ) .
interest wa expressed in all of the organisational aspect of home care including nursing , equipment loan and the volunteer programme .
like acet , cah will give both medical and practical help to aid patient in the home .
letter to the editor
letter would be welcome .
any contribution may be edited .
please write to : the editor , acet newsletter , p.o .
box 1323 , london w5 5tf .
be an acet-link for your church
dear friend
a the number of people ill with aid increase so doe the need for volunteer to care for them .
over the last three year , our volunteer have provided much love and care to many hurt and lonely people .
the support our volunteer provide can not be measured in purely practical term and their continuing contribution is vital if we are to provide an ongoing service .
in recognition of their importance and the need to train more volunteer , we want to develop link with individual church .
to do this , we would like to recruit people who are willing to be an acet-link in their church .
an acet-link person , possibly an existing volunteer , would keep their church informed about our work and encourage people to consider becoming volunteer , help with fundraising idea and circulate newsletter .
an acet-link will play a vital role a our work is growing so rapidly .
if you would like to know more about being an acet-link , please contact chris catlin/peter glover on 081 840 7879 or write to acet , po box 1323 , london w5 5tf .
peter johnson uk director
tear fund support ugandan work
anthony kasozi 's work a acet 's director in uganda ha recently received financial support form tear fund which ha enabled him , together with acet general manager , maurice adam , to identify a number of church-based project for the coming year .
these include : pedal cycle for a clinic allowing nurse to get out to outlying village ; health care kit to help with the care of patient in their own home ; training for different agency ; and a variety of education initiative .
returning from a visit to uganda , where he met with patient in the village and with other agency , maurice adam said , ‘ it is a beautiful country which is being devastated by a disease which can be stopped . ’
‘ the population in general is very well educated about aid , ’ say anthony kasozi , ‘ thanks to the commitment of the ugandan government who have done well in raising awareness .
the need here is to convince people that they must change their behaviour .
we are seeking to find out what local people want , because they must own the work themselves .
in this way , with a little money but much commitment , a great deal can be done . ’
hiv community nurse , sue lore , take an education class with the help of patron , cliff patron .
living with aid by john creedy
you can be perfectly well with hiv and at other time chronic debility make it hard to do even the basic thing .
in the early day the stigma of being hiv positive had driven away about 60 % of my circle of friend .
despite the publicity giving the fact surrounding the transmission of the disease , ignorance wa such that they became afraid of normal social contact .
it soon became clear that i could no longer rely on friend for help with everyday chore like shopping and housework when i needed it .
while deciding to stay a independent a possible , i contacted acet who i knew provided practical care at home .
i had previously spent about two year asking local social service and friend for help and not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down .
there wa also the question of my own exhaustion .
even a weekly visit by a local authority home help — when it wa finally arranged — wa not enough .
help provided by acet volunteer eventually go the flat ship-shape again and life became easier .
illness , including chronic muscle debility , herpes , tremor and eye infection , have come and gone .
recently i have experienced serious and potentially fatal fever .
basically every day is an effort , that 's the reality , and there 's a great tendency to want life to be a it wa .
i have far fewer friend and i am partially sighted , which make me a lot more vulnerable ; but whatever happens physically , i have always said that it wa what happened mentally that mattered .
being aware of the stress and pressure that many people and their family experience when aid or hiv is first diagnosed , i became involved in counselling .
i have also campaigned for the government to give aid greater recognition , not a a disease affecting specific sector of the community , but a a social problem for which there must be adequate welfare provision .
organisation like acet need this support to enable people like myself to retain maximum control and continue to live at home a independently a we can .
i have in recent year edited a self-help journal for people with aid , written for the national press and researched a variety of medical material for television .
without the help of acet and other direct service organisation and charity , i would not have been able to continue and maintain my independence .
by working co-operatively , long-term , with the people around me , i hope to continue for some time yet .
on air
director , dr patrick dixon , wa involved in numerous radio broadcast during june , in addition to his appearance on bbc newsroom south east 's magazine programme a part of our third birthday celebration .
pre-recorded broadcast were made by bbc radio news for radio 4 's ‘ world at one ’ and by independent radio news ( irn ) for broadcast during the week of the 7th international conference on aid in florence .
just before leaving to attend the conference itself , patrick fitted in a live broadcast on radio 4 's ‘ today programme ’ .
during the week the bbc took the opportunity to broadcast part of another pre-recorded interview on radio 4 's ‘ file on 4 ’ , while capital radio broadcast a four-part feature on aid , again including a ‘ canned ’ interview with patrick .
two bbc world service broadcast at the end of the week with patrick giving his assessment of the conference .
patrick 's attendance at the florence conference wa sponsored by the pharmaceutical firm , napp .
change
congratulation to brian harris , former manager of the education department , on his new appointment a manager of a housing project for the shaftesbury society in kilburn .
brian wa one of the very first member of the acet team and will be greatly missed .
denise jones , responsible for grant and equipment loan , left at the end june to develop her own business , the belgrave beauty clinic in chiswick , west london .
maurice adam , formerly deputy director with responsibility for new development in the uk and overseas , is now general manager of acet with responsibility for all acet operation .
rev j powrie , 22 year minister of chalmers — ardler parish church , church of scotland , ha recently been appointed a member of acet 's advisory council .
volunteer needed
the need for volunteer from church , particularly in london and scotland in the day-time , is an ever constant one .
volunteer manager , chris catlin , say , ‘ we have traditionally recruited volunteer from across the denomination including anglican , methodist , baptist , catholic and house church .
after spending some time , often year , with u , people move on to other thing and we need to fill the gap . ’
all volunteer are trained in a programme designed to : — give a broad knowledge of hiv and aid — equip an individual on an emotional and practical level to enable them to give compassionate and unconditional care — equip them to give practical support
the training programme itself cover key subject including : — death and dying — sex and sexuality — response and reaction — medical fact — grief and loss
in london , volunteer training programme will now take place every september and february and will require an individual 's time for one evening a week over a six-week programme .
programme for the four london area will take place a follows ; — south west thames — 9th september north west thames — 25th september north east thames — 2nd october south east thames — date to be fixed during september/early october all enquiry should be directed to chris catlin on 081 840 7879 .
romania
maurice adam , acet general manager , and overseas development worker , kate bristow , have recently returned from romania .
kate ha been overseeing an aid education course in constanta together with a local representative , ana ureche .
a similar course held at the beginning of the year in brasov , attended by sixty people including teacher , nurse and doctor , wa particularly encouraging a much of the material wa , in turn , passed on to other colleague for their use .
the success of the initial pilot programme ha been recognised by the ministry of health and the institute of health education and led to maurice , kate and ana meeting with government official and representative from unicef to establish a long-term training programme in five romanian region , starting in november of this year .
the attitude of many romanian health professional wa summed up recently in the word of one doctor in constanta who said ‘ health education is the only ‘ vaccine ’ we have to fight against hiv . ’
kate bristow commented , ‘ it is a real privilege for acet to be asked to work with such people a they look for way to develop an effective strategy . ’
international adviser
professor jonathan mann , former director of the who global aid programme , ha given his backing to acet by joining dr everett koop the former u surgeon general , a an international adviser .
speaking recently at the 7th international aid conference in florence he said :
‘ i am delighted to support acet 's developing international aid programme .
ten year after the discovery of aid we are entering into a new era in the global pandemic , with growing concern about our ability to confront it successfully .
new approach are needed , with close partnership between local community , non-government agency , government and international organisation .
i believe acet ha an important part to play in this process . ’
he added , ‘ we are just at the beginning of the worldwide epidemic and the situation is still very unstable .
the major impact is yet to come .
over the next decade a global approach is going to be essential . ’
superintendent trobridge of ealing police station hand a cheque for £400 to karen russell , acet trust manager .
the money wa part of the proceeds from the sale of unclaimed property sold under the police property act .
acet news aid care education & training
acet in the community
issue 1
aid in london changing fast
major change in the pattern of hiv disease occurring in the capital which are not obvious from published statistic .
the biggest change are in the length of time people ill with the disease are now surviving and in the nature of the illness themselves .
between 1984 and 1986 those with aid died on average some ten month after diagnosis .
between 1987 and 1989 , however , the survival period ha already doubled to twenty moth .
patient diagnosed more recently are probably surviving an average of longer than two year .
cause of death
the ‘ cause of death ’ figure are also changing beyond all recognition .
the classical pneumocystis pneumonia used to be the final event in the disease process in almost half ( 46 % ) of those with aid in 1986 .
while pneumonia is still a common occurrence , current preventative measure and improved treatment have reduced the number dying a a result to only 3 % by 1989 .
this change ha big implication for health planner and for those caring for people with aid .
with the pneumonia , the interval between early chest infection and death could be a little a 12 hour in someone outwardly fit and well .
planning wa often difficult or impossible and the need for home care wa le .
the commonest cause of death is now advanced kaposi 's sarcoma ( a kind of cancer ) .
slowly growing internal lesion can produce great difficulty in the lung and the gut , causing shortness of breath and other problem .
internal kaposi 's sarcoma can be very painful .
surviving longer
over a year or two , therefore , we have shifted from a population of recently diagnosed aid patient , often reasonably well but with life dominated by a threat of pneumonia , to a population surviving longer and developing a range of further complex problem of a chronic debilitating nature .
a london 's largest independent provider of community care for people ill with aid , staff at acet have seen these change unfold in the home .
while number of new aid case reported officially each month have remained relatively steady , there ha been a big increase in those needing expert medical and nursing advice at home with a 24-hour on call back up .
the number with pain are also higher .
those at home often need opiate ( morphine-like medicine ) for pain , while one in five will also need a special battery-operated syringe pump , especially if they are too weak to swallow .
specialist care
the picture then ha changed and we now need to plan for increasing number of those with chronic illness needing specialist community care — not just volunteer , although volunteer continue to have a vitally important role to play .
until the number of death each month ha risen to equal or exceed the number of new diagnosis , the number needing care will continue to rise fast , even if the number of new case reported in official figure is relatively constant or falling .
these factor help explain some of the reason why the total number of acet client covered at any one time by our on call service in london ha more than doubled from 70 in april 1990 to over 150 by march 1991 ; and why the nature of the service required ha become so much more sophisticated .
professionally-based community care is here to stay and is increasingly needed , backed by access to respite and long stay hospice bed and acute ward facility .
forward planning and good communication are the two foundation stone that must be in place to guarantee that people ill with hiv have the best choice and continue to enjoy the very best quality of life , wherever they choose to be .
‘ member of the london home care team from i. to r. — kay hopps , archie ferguson , cedria clifton , jackie sears ( team manager ) , sue lore and janet sutton . ’
notice board
three acet staff member , peter fabian , director of resource development , sue lore , a specialist hiv community nurse and peter glover , press and information officer , featured on radio thamesmead , north kent , in an hour-long chat show in april , speaking on aid and aid care in the community .
acet 's scottish office wa also featured on ‘ song of praise ’ on bbc1 .
care-link unit , designed to provide remote signalling of distress via the telephone system , are currently on loan with seven client in london .
designed originally with the need of the elderly in mind , those ill with hiv/aids at home are also finding them enormously valuable .
help can be summoned from acet or other service merely by pressing a button on a pendant worn around the neck .
this can make all the difference to someone who feel unsafe alone at home or to partner or friend .
referral to acet for home care in the london area have increased in the last six month by 50 % .
at the present rate of referral , number are more than set to double during the year .
around 85 % of those cared for in the capital are gay men , with an increasing number of woman and child .
referral of african men and woman infected heterosexually abroad are also increasing .
acet news aim to — inform borough , health authority , and voluntary agency of the work of acet in the community .
for more information about acet 's home care service please call u on 081 840 7879 and ask for jackie sears .
uk operation director appointed
peter johnson , 38 , ha been appointed uk operation director , with responsibility for acet 's existing operation and for new development within the uk .
the rapid growth of acet since it inception in 1988 ha made the creation of this new post a priority .
‘ i wa impressed by the care given to our client in london and elsewhere , ’ explained peter , ‘ and the length to which acet staff go to try and meet the need of client .
i feel that working in partnership with the client , and with other agency , is the most effective way of ensuring the need of our client are met . ’
peter studied astronomy at university college , london , and worked in accountancy for a short spell before deciding upon a career in nursing .
he spent three year at charing cross hospital school of nursing before qualifying a a registered general nurse in 1983 .
work on a medical ward and a a health visitor followed until in 1988 he became a neighbourhood nurse manager for wandsworth health authority .
‘ i basically managed district nurse , health visitor , school and family planning nurse , ’ he said .
kay , an acet nurse , visit a client to administer petamadine to help prevent him developing pneumocystis corinii pneumonia ( pcp ) .
child with hiv
the plight of child infected with hiv wa recently highlighted by princess diana when she presented a report by the national child 's bureau to a london conference on the impact of aid on family life .
acet already ha experience in caring for child ill with the disease , particularly through it scottish office .
in the experience of acet staff and volunteer , practical care in the home not only benefit the hiv infected individual but the whole family , which can often mean three generation .
at least 60 % of the individual being cared for by acet in tayside also have child themselves .
some of these child are infected , but those who are not are still affected by hiv .
acet belief that specialist and volunteer home care is a vital factor in helping to keep family together and lessening the trauma involved when family member are diagnosed hiv positive .
portsmouth office
portsmouth and south east hampshire area health authority ha recently purchased a building in portsmouth for the use of aid agency covering the south east hampshire area .
acet home care , which move into the building in july , will share the office with two other aid charity , p.a.l.s .
( portsmouth aid link support ) and the link project .
the health authority ha provided funding for the running of acet 's office including volunteer co-ordinator , anne hutchins .
hampshire county council ha provided £20,000 to furnish the building .
p.a.l.s .
provides counselling and general family support , the link project deal with drug-related problem and give general advice , while acet provides practical home care not only to the portsmouth area but also along the south coast .
living with aid by john creedy
two and a half year ago i wa diagnosed a being hiv positive .
it wa no particular shock when i found out ; i had expected the test to be positive .
i wa a very happy gay man .
there wa clearly a need to adapt my lifestyle , but playing the role of victim wa never among my plan .
you can be perfectly well with hiv and at other time chronic debility make it hard to do even the basic thing .
in the early day the stigma of being hiv positive had driven away about 60 % of my circle of friend .
despite the publicity giving the fact surrounding the transmission of the disease , ignorance wa such that they became afraid of normal social interaction .
it soon became clear that i could no longer rely on friend for help with everyday chore like shopping and housework when i needed it .
whilst resolving to stay at independent a possible , i contacted acet who i knew provided practical care at home .
i had previously spent about two year asking local social service and friend for help and not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down .
there wa also the question of my own exhaustion .
even a weekly visit by a local authority home help when it wa finally arranged wa not enough .
help provided by an acet volunteer eventually got the flat ship-shape again and life became easier .
illness , including chronic muscle debility , herpes , tremor and eye infection , have come and gone .
recently i have experienced series and potentially fatal fever .
basically every day is an effort , that 's the reality , and there 's a great tendency to want life to be a it wa .
i have far few friend and i am partially sighted , which make me a lot more vulnerable ; but whatever happens physically , i have always said that it wa what happened mentally that mattered .
being aware of the stress and pressure that many people and their family experience with aid or hiv is first diagnosis , i became involved in counselling .
i have also campaigned for the government to give aid greater recognition , not a a disease affecting specific sector of the community , but a a social problem for which there must be adequate welfare provision .
organisation like acet need this kind of support to enable people like myself to retain maximum control and continue to live at home .
i have in recent year edited a self-help journal for people with aid , written for the national press and researched a variety of medical material for television .
without the help of acet and other similar organisation i would not have been able to continue and maintain my independence .
by working co-operatively , longterm , with the people around me , i hope to continue for some time yet .
notice board
maurice adam , general manager of acet , ha recently returned form uganda where he ha been discussing planning for future project with acet 's african director , anthony kasozi .
next year 's work ha been partly funded by the charity tear fund .
following the running of an aid educational course for 60 people including doctor , nurse and teacher in brasov , romania , earlier this year , a follow-up day wa held in april .
acet 's local representative , ana ureche , reported that she wa ‘ greatly encouraged ’ that course participant had been lecturing to school and other group and had passed much of the literature obtained form the course to other colleague for their use .
alison maunsell , acet 's east midland regional co-ordinator based in northampton , ha been invited to join h.i.v . t.e.s.p.i . ( training , education , support & public initiative ) , a forum run by the local health authority .
alison will represent acet and the interest of client .
acet 's london home care team will shortly be strengthened by the arrival of a new nurse , catherine murphy , to help manage the increasing number of referral .
catherine qualified in general nursing at dr steeven 's hospital , dublin .
midwifery training at epsom & surrey followed and she ha recently completed a course in tropical nursing at the london hospital for tropical disease .
catherine , who is on a three-month contract with acet , is looking forward to caring for people with hiv/aids .
letter to the editor letter would be welcome .
any contribution may be edited .
please write to : the editor , acet news , p.o .
box 1323 , london , w5 5tf .
area profile ealing
in january 1988 a small group of 50 would-be volunteer met in the ealing ymca to learn about aid .
this wa the beginning of acet .
many of the first group completed a training course to provide practical help in the home for a small number of people ill with hiv/aids .
the first referral came from ealing , acton and surrounding area .
this wa coordinated from the living room of a local doctor .
the remit of this fledgling group wa to provide the highest standard of unconditional care to men , woman and child ill at home with hiv/aids .
within a short space of time referral were regularly coming in .
in june 1988 acet wa officially launched a a registered charity .
over the next six month this small group of professional and volunteer provided practical care for 15 people living in or around the borough of ealing .
to date acet ha provided professional nursing care or practical help to over 400 individual across london , excluding hardship grant and equipment loan .
in ealing alone we have received over 30 referral for home care .
it ha always been acet 's policy to work with and complement statutory and other voluntary organization .
in ealing , social worker , h.e.a.r.s ( hounslow & ealing aid response service ) and the ealing home support team have made referral to acet to provide for need where a single agency can not give all of the support required .
likewise acet ha also involved other agency on behalf of the client .
both the borough and health authority have supported the work of acet in ealing by being among the first to provide financial support .
acet is currently working with the health authority to develop a service level agreement for 1991/92 .
a day in the life of an acet volunteer
monday 8.55am — i arrive at the office for what look like a quiet day catching up on necessary office work and telephoning some of our low-dependency client to see how they are .
there 's a message on the answerphone from tony 's brother .
tony ha been unwell over the weekend .
one of the nurse ring back , discus the situation and say she will ring the hospital and/or his gp to see what can be done .
i am asked if i can be on standby if transport is needed ?
9.32am — diary check — a general discussion of appointment and availability for the week follow with janet , our co-ordinator .
this includes nurse and volunteer .
at the moment it look like my usual stint of ironing on thursday and shopping on friday are the main fixture , but anything can happen before then .
10.10am — still no decision about tony .
we are now waiting for the specialist to phone back .
meanwhile , another cry for help .
westminster hospital , say that andrew , on of their patient , need to be admitted but they are unable to find transport a no ambulance is available .
no other organisation can help .
we agree to help and perhaps i can combine the two visit .
11.00am — tony ha been given an appointment at the local hospital .
i will be able to take him and continue into london to pick up andrew .
at least i 'll be able to have lunch first and not be munching my sandwich in a traffic jam .
1.04pm — tony , and his mum , are still getting ready to arrive .
he is not at all well , very breathless , and by the time we are in the care he is gasping for air .
1.05pm — having left tony and his mum at his appointment , i set off in the direction of the a4 .
2.30pm — i arrive at andrew 's house .
although he is suffering from a type of septicaemia , he is clearly having a good spell .
we make the most of this and scoot off to the hospital .
3.35pm — arrive back at hospital no.1 .
tony is to be admitted but … wait for it … to yet another hospital !
if i ca n't take him he will have a two-hour wait for an ambulance .
i 've heard of a pub crawl … but a hospital crawl ?
4.00pm — we set off again ; this time via tony 's home to collect a variety of possession , finally arriving at hospital no.3 .
4.55pm — tony is ushered into a side ward with three doctor and i stay outside with mum .
the only problem is , she is ugandan and speaks very little english , ha no idea how to get home and ha no money for transport .
i try to explain that , unlike her home country , she will not be staying in with him .
nobody seems to have explained this to her , but finally she understands .
her daughter have however been contacted so i agree to keep her company until they arrive .
5.45pm — they finally turn up .
a the doctor are still with tony , i explain the position to the daughter and hand mum over to them .
6.30pm — home at last !
of course , i still need to catch up on that necessary office work , maybe tomorrow …
cedria is a full-time volunteer and one of national network of volunteer .
both full- and part-time work is carefully organised according to the availability and skill of each volunteer .
all volunteer are carefully selected and trained .
what is acet ?
acet is a national and international aid charity with the following objective :
to develop appropriate local response to the global problem to hiv/aids
to provide professionally-based practical home care to men , woman and child at home with hiv/aids related illness .
to enable people who are ill with hiv/aids to live and die at home , if that is their wish , and appropriate to their need .
to reduce the number of new hiv infection by giving young people the fact about aid .
aid care education and training is a company limited by guarantee .
reg .
no . 2245302 and a registered charity no . 299293 .
registered office 318 st paul 's road , duke street , london n1 2lp .
hiv it 's your choice
every day the virus causing aid is infecting more young people .
a friend can infect you without your knowing .
no cure for aid
once you 're infected the virus may destroy your natural defence for over 10 year without you realising .
and you an pas on the infection again without knowing .
there is no cure .
once infected , you will — sooner or later — develop fullblown aid .
friend or partner may soon be ill too .
the truth about aid
the doctor say : ‘ hiv is the virus that cause aid . ’
hiv spread between people who have sexual intercourse together , or who share needle when injecting drug , or from mother to unborn child .
the most common way for the virus to spread is through unprotected sexual intercourse between two people , one of whom is infected .
you can be tested for infection at a special hospital clinic .
but remember you have to wait at least 12 week after the possible infection for the test result to be accurate .
there is still no cure , no vaccine , no wonder drug , for hiv infection or aid .
safe !
you ca n't catch hiv in any of these way :
from a toilet
from mosquito bite
from giving blood
from a swimming_pool
from kissing
from day-to-day contact
it 's very safe receiving blood transfusion .
the chance of getting infected from a pint of blood is le than 1 in a million .
what is aid ?
risky sex or dirty needle send hiv into the blood .
the virus , hiv , enters a ‘ soldier ’ cell .
the soldier cell is programmed to make up 1000 of new hiv particle .
then it burst , dy , and release all these virus into the blood .
over the next 5–15 year , 1000 more soldier cell in the body get infected .
they make million of virus , before they too die off .
a new germ enters the body .
now there are n't enough ‘ soldier ’ cell to beat the germ , so it multiplies .
the body is seriously infected .
hospital treatment is needed .
some die of the infection .
most recover gradually .
until the next germ arrives …
sex and aid
‘ i 've been to fifteen funeral of my friend this year .
they all died through aid .
now it 's my turn . ’
j.l . , london
tom is a lorry-driver .
he 's infected with the virus causing aid , but doe n't know .
( he could have been infected by 1 of at least 3 different way .
what are they ? * )
tom ha in turn infected mary and sam — he 's bisexual .
still not knowing he 's infected , tom marries janet .
a year later , she 's infected too .
one day tom is rushed to hospital with an unusual type of pneumonia .
now the doctor tell shim he ha aid .
tom ha infected at least 6 people — thought he ha never even met jane , mark and alan .
over a period of time they will all be ill .
when sex can cause disease
rapid spread
until recently it wa reckoned that men and woman on average had sex with 6 different people in their lifetime .
and those 6 partner with 36 more …
so one person could receive sexually-transmitted disease ( std ) from up to 40,000 other people !
‘ but i 've only had sex with one person , ’ you say .
it only need one person to pas on an infection .
sexually transmitted disease ( std )
each year in the uk hospital that more than 500,000 new case of std .
these include gonorrhoea , syphilis , herpes , genital wart , chlamydia , and now , hiv infection .
some of these disease are becoming more and more resistant to treatment .
for most of them there is a cure ; but a yet not for hiv infection .
sexually transmitted disease can prevent woman from conceiving child .
it 's possible that a sexually-transmitted infection might cause cancer of the cervix — especially if you 're under 20 .
tell-tale sign
soreness in the groin , or a discharge from the genitals , can be a sign of some sexually transmitted disease .
but often the person infected doe n't notice anything wrong .
what to do
if you 're worried that you 've recently take a risk , go to the special std clinic at your local hospital .
they will check you , and treat you if necessary .
they 're used to these disease .
do n't hesitate to go .
two expert discus hiv in front of hugely-magnified projection of soldier cell .
those coloured red are infected .
sex : it 's your choice
safe
close relationship that stop short of sexual intercourse .
staying a virgin till you meet the right person — also a virgin — and … staying faithful to that one person for the rest of your life .
also , neither of you ever injecting drug .
low risk
sex with a condom that contains nonoxynol spermicide .
higher risk
sex without a condom .
( how can you be sure your partner is n't infected ? )
very high risk
injecting drug with a shared needle and syringe . ( 20 people can get infected in a single evening this way . )
why do people get into drug ?
‘ it look cool … ’
there 's a party .
stuff is getting passed round .
it can seem hard to say ‘ no ’ !
particularly if you 're not feeling confident .
‘ i 'm curious … ’
people climb mountain ‘ because they 're there ’ .
they make parachute drop ‘ to see what it 's like ’ .
why not drug ?
because shooting your brain to bit is n't worth it !
‘ i 'm looking for meaning to life … ’
some people think drug can help you find god , or discover the meaning of life .
ok — when you 're in a dazed state , drug may make you think you understand it all .
but some drug cause bad , disturbing flashback .
‘ i ca n't cope with life … ’
many people who use drug regularly find it difficult to exist in a drug-free world .
they can become crippled psychologically and hooked physically .
even after ‘ drying out ’ , they may feel strongly pulled back into the drug world .
drug often make people feel they 're coping , when they 're really not coping at all .
trading death
a big problem
drug are never cheap .
the effect never last long and you always want more .
a paper round or weekend job doe n't pay enough .
stealing , cheating and lying become the only way to pay .
it 's always on your mind
you ca n't look your family in the eye .
your friend begin to wonder what is wrong .
you begin to hate yourself for what you 're doing .
thing are always on your mind .
trying to feel better by using more never seems to work for long .
drug and aid
drug damage your body .
they can kill , and injecting drug with a shared needle or syringe can be the fastest way to get hiv — even if you only do it once .
why you should say ‘ no ’ to drug !
once you 've taken the drug , your next decision could be influenced by that drug .
it could ruin your entire life .
some drug can hook you almost instantly .
if you say yes — that could be your last free decision .
drug are no substitute for real living .
they ca n't give you a purpose or meaning in life .
no-one ha the right to pressure you .
you 're always free to say no !
‘ i think i 'm in love … ’
‘ how do i know if i 've met the right person ? ’
most expert say that the happiest — and longest — relationship are based on close friendship and shared interest , not just strong feeling .
it take s lot more than just physical attraction to make a lasting , happy marriage .
strong friendship take time to build .
many people say that sex is most fulfilling when it express the commitment , care , security and understanding of an exclusive friendship .
friendship take time .
in most happy marriage , husband and wife continue to make time to be with each other , and to understand each other .
how doe aid affect you ?
we say someone ha aid when the virus ha weakened the body so much that certain new illness are developing .
for example , if the ‘ soldier ’ cell are weakened , the chest can be infected .
it get harder to breathe — and you may die .
your gut can get infected , so you ca n't absorb the goodness in your food .
you lose weight , you feel very weak , and pas motion up to 10 time a day .
this person with the hiv infection ha developed a sore mouth
cancer may grow .
for example , there is a skin cancer called kaposi 's sarcoma .
if you have aid , a germ can destroy your eyesight .
you can also find it hard to remember thing , because germ are multiplying in your brain .
people with aid are often well for long period between time of illness .
a woman receiving urgent hospital treatment for aid .
how to keep healthy
never share a needle or syringe if you 're injecting drug .
always use a condom ( unless you 're absolutely sure your partner is not infected ) * .
this reduces the risk of infection — it doe n't eliminate it .
reduce the number of partner you have sex with .
aim at having only 1 sexual partner for the rest of your life
if you would like to take to someone about matter covered in this booklet , there is a free and confidential service : national aid helpline : freephone 0800 567 123
text© patrick dixon 1990 design© three 's company
first published 1990 by acet p.o .
box 1323 london w5 5tf isbn 0 95 16386 0 2
all right reserved .
no part of this publication may be reproduced , stored in a retrieval system , or transmitted , in any form or by any mean , electronic , mechanical , photocopying , recording or otherwise , without the prior permission in writing of the publisher .
photograph by zefa uk illustration by kate taylor designer p wyart
created by three 's company 12 flitcroft street , london wc2 produced by angus hudson ltd , mill hill , london typeset by watermark , cromer printed in great britain
the cost of this booklet ha been met by world in need .
aid a caring response acet
the challenge
the chronic nature of aid mean that people 's need are many and varied .
for many a stay in hospital is in appropriate but they are often too weak or ill to care for themselves properly .
for some this make hospitalization inevitable .
when someone is ill with aid they are often in pain .
exhaustion is a permanent feature preventing the completion of even the most simple task .
friend and family often reject them , leaving them free to face this chronic condition alone .
without acet 's practical support at home they could spend long period of time in hospital unnecessarily .
the reality of aid is that the person can die at any time .
the person 's need to know ‘ when and how ’ is sometimes overwhelming .
one of the difficulty is that every person 's situation is different .
the medical aspect can be dementia , sudden blindness , loss of mobility , thrush , shingle , kaposi 's sarcoma ( a type of cancer ) , weight loss , or any combination of these .
the person 's circumstance may change rapidly , from owner occupier to homelessness ; from a good income to living on sickness benefit ; from young and active to housebound and disabled .
acet 's home care service
acet provides a dedicated home care service using a team of doctor and nurse backed by a trained and active network of over 400 volunteer .
the service includes pain and symptom control and nursing advice .
volunteer cook , clean , nightsit and carry out diy and many other task .
our aim is to enable people to live and to die at home if that is their wish and appropriate to their need .
the stigma still associated with aid mean that often those who have the disease are isolated .
acet ca n't replace family and friend but can provide the practical care and support to enable people with hiv/aids related illness to stay at home .
education
acet through it school education programme aim to reduce the number of new infection by giving young people the fact about aid .
we have already visited over 90 school and reached 36,000 pupil .
overseas
acet ha already been drawn overseas and is working in romania , uganda and tanzania , in partnership with local church-based project and in conjunction with government programme .
our assistance is offered sensitively and in a culturally appropriate way .
the future
in the uk we have office in london , portsmouth , northampton , belfast , dundee and edinburgh .
if we are to continue providing unconditional practical care on such a wide level then we need your support today .
it cost about £2,000 to care for someone between referral to acet and their death .
this work out at the equivalent of just £10 per day .
all our programme need your continued support .
despite the fact that we do n't hear so much about aid these day the problem are increasing .
if you would like to support the work of acet then please complete the coupon and return it to u today .
thank you .
aid a caring response
acet — aid care education and training is a national and international church-based charity with office in the uk , romania and uganda .
the charity wa launched in june 1988 by dr patrick dixon , a specialist in care for the dying and author or two book on the subject of aid .
initial sponsorship wa provided by world in need , a charity which also helped launch action aid and help the aged .
acet is committed to the unconditional care of all those who are ill with hiv/aids regardless of race , religion , lifestyle , sex , sexuality or any other factor .
we provide professionally based practical home care to men , woman and child who are ill at home with hiv/aids related illness .
since launching our uk service we have received over 1,200 request for practical help .
this make u the largest independent provider of practical home care to people with aid in the uk .
donation
yes , i would like to make acet 's home care service and education programme more widely available and enclose a donation of :
covenant
covenant
covenant giving to acet ?
this leaflet try to answer some of the question you might have on giving to acet by covenant .
is a covenant the only method of tax-effective giving ?
no .
since 1987 it ha been possible to ask your employer to deduct regular sum from your pay through the payroll giving scheme up to a maximum of £600 per annum ( not all employer offer their employee this facility ) .
from lst october 1990 , there is also a new scheme called gift aid which allows you to give sum of £600 or more to a charity tax-effectively ( with a maximum of £5 million for your total charitable donation in any one tax year ) .
a separate leaflet give detail of that scheme .
is a covenant complicated ?
not really .
a deed of covenant is a legal document which need to be correctly drawn up and signed .
the law relating to covenant is quite complex but basically a covenant is a legally-binding document by which you transfer some of your income to a charity for a stated period .
acet is a charity , registered with the charity commission under registration number 299293 .
a far a you are concerned , a covenant can be exceedingly simple .
there is a simple covenant form attached to this leaflet which is quite sufficient .
all you have to do is to fill in the detail , including your name and address and the amount you wish to give , and sign and date the document in front of a witness .
you will also be asked to sign a certificate of deduction of tax once a year confirming that you are a uk taxpayer .
this is all you need do for the tax benefit of covenant giving to work .
the value of your gift then increase by 33.3 % in acet 's hand , with the blessing of the inland revenue .
how long doe a covenant have to last ?
at the time you enter a deed of covenant , the covenant should be capable of lasting for 3 year , and there should be the intention by you that it doe so .
this is why the normal period for a charitable covenant is 4 year .
but it is possible to have a covenant which last for a longer period , provided that the period is specified in the deed .
do i need to go to a lawyer ?
no .
it doe not need a lawyer either to draw up any document or to advise you although you may wish to consult a professional adviser if a particularly large sum is involved or if there are complicated condition surrounding the gift .
how should i make my payment ?
you can pay by cash or by cheque .
if you pay by cash you will normally obtain a receipt a proof of payment .
if you use the covenant form attached to this leaflet you can make each annual payment at any time , or by any instalment , you wish a long a you make the full annual payment by the end of each 12-month period .
since you are agreeing to make regular payment over a number of year , it is probably easier for you to pay by banker 's order or direct debit mandate when the payment will automatically be made from your bank_account .
there is a banker 's order form attached to this leaflet which you can use .
make sure that the amount of the payment is the net sum mentioned in the deed of covenant or the appropriate proportion of that net sum if you wish to pay by quarterly or monthly instalment .
also make sure that the banker 's order terminates with the final covenant payment .
can i increase my covenant payment ?
the simple answer is no .
the amount of the annual covenant payment is specified in the deed , and this is the sum that is payable each year .
if you wish to increase your support , you can simply write a cheque for the additional amount you wish to give .
but this is not tax-effective and acet will not benefit from the additional 33.3 % increase in value .
you can use the gift aid scheme if you wish to give another £600 or more .
or you can enter into a second deed of covenant committing yourself to make payment under both the existing and new covenant .
a a further alternative , you can enter into a supplemental deed .
this ha the effect of cancelling your existing covenant and in return you commit yourself to making payment under the new covenant .
this procedure is perfectly acceptable provided that your new commitment are at least a great a the remaining commitment due under the orignal covenant .
can i extend my covenant , if i wish to continue making payment over a longer period ?
again the answer is no .
the length of the covenant will have been specified in the deed , and it will terminate when the last specified annual payment ha been made .
at that stage you can enter into a new covenant .
how much can i covenant ?
covenant payment are made out of your income and are not capital payment .
you could covenant all your taxable income if you wished — remember though that a part of your total income will not be subject to tax , because of the various tax allowance you enjoy ( personal allowance , mortgage interest relief , etc . )
if you are planning to give a particularly large sum , it is always more advantageous to give out of income by covenant than to give a capital sum .
you can spread the payment over a long a period a you like .
using the ‘ deposited covenant ’ procedure you can pay over the whole of the donation in one go , and we can give you full detail of how to do this .
alternatively , you could use the gift aid scheme ( see separate leaflet ) .
what happens if i do not pay uk income tax ?
this can cause problem , since you agree under the term of the covenant to make payment out of income from which tax ha been deducted .
if you have not paid tax , then you would not be able to sign a certificate of deduction of tax and acet would not be able to reclaim tax on the covenant .
if acet did somehow reclaim tax on the covenant then you would be liable to pay income tax to the inland revenue on the amount of your covenant payment .
so if you are not a uk taxpayer you are advised not to enter into deed of covenant , but to make your regular charitable payment by simple banker 's order without any covenant .
you may in fact find that you do pay some tax in the uk .
if you have dividend or receive bank or building society interest on which tax ha been paid , tax will have been deducted at source , and this will enable you to sign a certificate of deduction of tax so that acet can obtain the advantage of covenant giving .
which spouse should enter into the covenant ?
since 6th april 1990 , married couple have been taxed independently , and each spouse is responsible for paying tax on his/her own income .
if you do not pay income tax , but your spouse doe , you should not enter into a deed of covenant on your own .
either you should ask your spouse to enter into the covenant or you could enter into a joint deed of covenant signed by both you and your spouse .
in either event your spouse should actually make the covenant payment , not you .
in the same way , if your spouse pay income tax at the higher rate and you pay tax at only the ( lower ) basic rate , then in order to obtain higher rate tax relief , your spouse should enter into the covenant , or into a joint deed of covenant with you , and he/she should actually make the covenant payment .
this higher rate tax relief will save 20 % of the cost of the covenant payment .
covenant form for uk tax payer
can i backdate a covenant to cover donation i have already made ?
the answer is no .
a covenant is a legally binding document to make regular donation , and such donation must be made under the term of an existing deed of covenant for tax to be reclaimable .
thus , the first payment should be on or after the date on which the deed of covenant is signed .
you can not simply draw up a covenant ( or a deposited covenant agreement ) to cover a donation you have already made in the hope that acet can obtain tax advantage on the sum given .
however , it can be possible for the document to be signed after you have sent a payment by cheque provided that you arrange for u to hold the cheque and not pay it into the bank until we have received the signed deed of covenant .
what happens if i have difficulty in continuing to make payment ?
if this unlikely situation arises , you should discus the problem with u .
although acet , like any charity , doe not have the power to release you from the agreement it is likely to be sympathetic .
for instance we can suggest way of rescheduling the payment over a longer period .
whatever happens , any tax relief obtained on donation you have already made will not be lost .
it is possible to include in the wording of the deed that the covenant will cease if certain condition occur — for example , if you become unemployed or your income fall below a certain level .
but , unless you are considering a particularly large donation , it is unlikely that you would need to include any complicated form of wording .
the inland revenue will not accept ‘ escape ’ condition which would effectively enable you to terminate the covenant of your own volition .
gift aid
gift aid
giving to acet by gift aid
this leaflet try to answer some of the question you might have on giving to acet through the gift aid scheme .
1 .
what is gift aid ?
gift aid is a scheme which give tax relief for ‘ one-off ’ contribution to charity and it came into force on 1st october 1990 .
until then an individual could obtain income tax relief for a gift to charity only if the gift wa made under a deed of covenant .
2 .
how doe gift aid work ?
the mechanism of gift aid is very simple .
provided the gift is at least £600 it will be regarded a having been paid net of basic rate tax .
the charity is able to recover the basic rate tax ‘ deducted ’ and the donor can , if appropriate , obtain higher rate tax relief on his payment .
say , for example , you pay £750 to acet under gift aid .
the net payment is equivalent to a gross sum of £1,000 .
acet an claim repayment of £250 so it received the full £1,000 .
if you pay tax at the higher rate you will personally obtain further relief of 15 % on the gross figure , so making the net cost of the payment to you £600 .
( the tax rate cited are those in force in 1990/91 ) .
the key to the working of gift aid is a certificate which must be signed by the donor .
without that certificate , the charity can not obtain the repayment of the basic rate tax and the donor can not get higher rate relief .
the inland revenue form r190 ( sd ) contains the certificate and the form requires the donor to state that he satisfies all the condition relating to gift aid ( a to which , see 4 below ) , including the fact that he ha paid , or will pay , tax equal to the basic rate on the gross amount of the gift .
in the above example the gross amount of the gift wa £1,000 , so the donor would have to certify that he would be paying tax of at least £250 .
this last point must not be overlooked and may prevent large capital sum being passed under gift aid ( but see 6. below ) .
you also need to bear in mind that you may have other payment under existing deed of covenant or other payment made under gift aid in the same tax year , and you will need to have a taxable income at least equal to the gross amount of all these payment , a well a the gift aid payment being contemplated , otherwise you will have to account to the revenue for some tax .
3 .
what are the advantage of gift aid over a deed of covenant ?
there are several difference :
( i )
to be effective for tax purpose a deed of covenant ha to turn for a period capable to exceeding three year .
the intention of a gift aid scheme is to encourage giving without the donor being tied to a particular charity for this length of time .
( ii )
under gift aid there are no formality at the time of the gift , just a cheque or cash gift to the charity .
the certificate on form r190 ( sd ) must be completed but this can be done at any time and amount to little more than a claim procedure .
with a payment under covenant , the deed of covenant ha to be filled in corrected before a payment is made .
( iii )
since gift aid applies to a single gift it can be a very useful mean of making a charitable gift towards the end of the tax year when your taxable income for the year can be estimated with some degree of precision .
this applies particularly to self-employed person .
but to gain the advantage of the gift aid scheme certain condition have to be complied with .
4 .
what are the condition to gift aid ?
( i )
cash only .
only payment of cash of at least £600 fall within the scope of gift aid .
cash includes cheque payment , bank transfer and credit_card payment .
thus the transfer of an asset to a charity e.g . a work of art , will not qualify ( although there are other way for a charity to obtain tax relief on the gift of an asset ) .
nor will it be possible to make a regular contribution below the £600 limit ( though see 5. below ) .
( ii )
no repayment .
a payment only qualifies under gift aid if it is a ‘ gift ’ .
thus it must be made absolutely with no condition about repayment .
( iii )
no debt cancelled .
gift aid may not be used by a donor a a mean of writing of a debt or loan owed to him by the charity .
( iv )
no benefit .
any benefit enjoyed by the donor or a ‘ connected person ’ a a consequence of making a gift under gift aid must not exceed the lower of £250 or 2½ % of the value of the gift .
a ‘ connected person ’ broadly speaking mean any close relative .
( v )
not connected with acquisition of property .
a payment will not qualify under gift aid if it is made to enable the charity to purchase a property , or other asset , from the donor or from a ‘ connected person ’ .
( vi )
uk resident .
the donor must be resident in the united kingdom at the time that the gift is made .
if a nonresident wish to make a tax effective gift out of uk source income he should use a deed of covenant .
( vii )
minimum and maximum amount .
the minimum donation which an individual can make under the gift aid is £600 . the total donation which an individual may make under gift aid in any tax year must not exceed £5,000,000 .
5 .
what if i wish to give small amount regularly over a period ?
payment qualify for tax relief under gift aid only if the donation is for £600 or more .
if you wish to give small amount regularly , e.g . monthly , you could accumulate the money in a separate account and then convert this to a gift to acet every time the amount reach £600 .
in this way your gift to acet will qualify for gift aid relief even though the monthly payment would be too small to do so .
thus if you set aside £25 per month it would take two year to accumulate the £600 minimum for the gift aid scheme .
if for any reason you wanted to give each monthly payment direct to acet , we could hold the money in an account in your name until the amount accumulated reach the £600 threshold .
care would be needed with the wording used in any such scheme and acet can give you more detail about this .
6 .
what if i wish to give a sum of capital or a sum in excess of my annual taxable income ?
if you wish to give a capital sum to acet ( e.g . from an inheritance your have received ) or an amount of money that exceeds your taxable for the tax year of the gift , acet can still get tax relief on your gift if you enter into a deposited covenant arrangement .
this is quite separate from gift aid and detail can be supplied on request .
likewise , if you wished to make a single gift to acet of le than £600 then — assuming that you are a taxpayer — you can enable acet to get the benefit of tax relief by the same deposited covenant arrangement .
donation
7 .
what happens if i do not pay uk income tax ?
this can cause problem because if you do not pay tax then you will not be able to sign the certificate on form r190 ( sd ) and acet would not be able to re-claim basic rate on the payment .
if acet did somehow reclaim tax on the payment then you would be liable to pay income tax to the inland revenue on the amount of your gift aid payment .
so if you are not a uk taxpayer you are advised not to make a payment under the gift aid scheme but to make a straight payment by cash or cheque .
you may in fact find that you do pay some tax in the uk if you have dividend or receive bank or building society interest on which tax ha been paid , tax will have beed deducted at source , and this will enable you to sign a certificate so that acet can obtain the advantage of the gift aid scheme .
8 .
which spouse should make the gift aid payment ?
since 6th april 1990 , married couple have been taxed independently , and each spouse is responsible for paying tax on his/her own income .
if you do not pay income tax but your spouse doe , then your spouse should make the gift aid payment .
similarly , if your spouse pay income tax at the higher rate and you pay tax at only the ( lower ) basic rate , then your spouse should make the gift aid payment in order to obtain the higher rate relief .
legacy
leaving a legacy to acet
why should i make a will ?
if i do n't make a will , then the distribution of what you posse when you die may not be a you would wish .
many people wrongly assume that all they have automatically go to their loved one .
this is n't necessarily so and by neglecting to make a valid , legal will family put at risk the security and future of their nearest and dearest .
also , by making a proper will you could well save your dependant from paying an unnecessary amount of inheritance tax ( death duty ) .
moreover , death is a time of great stress to those you love most .
not to have made a will can only add to that stress .
how do i make a will ?
there is nothing complicated about it .
a will is simply a clear statement about how your money and possession are to be divided when you die .
but do not make one without the advice of a solicitor .
he will help you draw up accurately what you need to say .
he will help you to observe the legal requirement and to name executor to carry out your instruction , to appoint guardian if necessary and to cancel any previous will .
he will advise you on the inheritance tax your estate might incur and way in which this may be reduced .
he will be able to remind you of beneficiary you might otherwise forget .
who will deal with my estate when i die ?
it is most important to appoint at least one executor when you make your will .
it is in fact advisable to name more than one executor in case one of them dy before you .
choose people you know well and trust and with whom you can share the detail of your affair .
a solicitor or accountant can act a an executor if you so wish .
it doe n't matter if your executor stand to benefit from the will .
how can i reduce the amount of inheritance tax payable on my estate ?
at present , the first £128,000 of any estate is free of inheritance tax .
anything over this amount is , basically , liable to inheritance tax at 40 % .
there are exemption for gift to spouse and to charity .
of course , taking account of the value of a house and it content and personal saving and investment it is not surprising that a great many people have estate that exceed the inheritance tax threshold .
however , a gift to acet is completely free of inheritance tax , due to the fact that acet is a charity .
money that is otherwise destined for the inland revenue can instead go to acet .
and £400 of tax can be saved for every £1,000 that you give .
( figure correct a at feb. 1991 ) .
an example
let 's say that your estate is worth £140,000 , net of liability .
a this is over the inheritance tax threshold , it would bring a tax bill of £4,800 .
by leaving £5,000 to acet , however , the taxable value of your estate is reduced to £135,000 and this would give a tax saving of £2,000 .
what form of word should i use for a legacy to acet ?
it might be helpful to take to your solicitor a form of word to cover your gift to acet and we suggest the following : ‘ to acet of paramount house , 71/75 uxbridge road , ealing , london w5 for it general purpose ( one of these alternative ) : ’
1 .
‘ … the sum of £ ’ .
2 .
‘ … all the residue of my estate ’ .
3 .
‘ one share of the residue of my estate ’ .
‘ and i declare that the receipt of the treasurer or other proper officer of acet shall be a sufficient discharge to my executor ’ .
london home care aid care education & training 081 840 7879
what is acet home care ?
in london we have a team of 4 specialist nurse backed up by 2 doctor .
whether you need medical or nursing advice or practical support in the home we can help .
nursing
our nurse have been extensively trained in symptom control , home care and hiv/aids related issue .
if you refer for our service you will be visited by one of the team who will discus your need with you .
this mean that you can decide on your own care support .
practical support
acet volunteer are available to help whenever you need them , a long a you make arrangement with our volunteer coordinator and give u a much notice a possible .
acet volunteer carry out the following task a well a many others :
•
housework
•
transport
•
collecting prescription
•
shopping
•
nightsitting
in an emergency you can reach an acet doctor or nurse through our 24 hour on call facility .
this mean you can get professional help any time of the day or night , and at weekend .
we also have a limited number of care-link telephone for installation in individual home .
these enable you to call for help from anywhere in your house or flat .
this can bring security and peace of mind to those who are ill but living on their own .
medical equipment acet can loan specialised medical equipment after consultation with your doctor .
for information about our home care service call janet sutton on 081 840 7879
janet sutton
doe acet 's service cost me anything ?
we are given some financial support from the government but this doe snot cover all our cost and we therefore depend on gift from trust , company and individual .
if you would like to help u financially why not ask one of our home care team for detail .
meeting your need
acet recognises that people can have need in many area .
we are committed to the practical care of all those who are ill with aids/hiv regardless of race , religion , lifestyle , sex , sexuality or any other factor .
our trained worker find that some of those we care for want to talk through emotional and spiritual issue .
acet is a church-based organisation whose primary concern is practical care rather than counselling , and so these area are only covered if they are raised by our client .
how can i benefit from acet 's service
to be eligible for acet home care you must be hiv positive and require assistance because of this .
once you have decided you would like practical help from acet just ring 081 840 7879 and ask for home care .
if appropriate one of our specialist nurse will then arrange to come and see you to discus your practical need and see how acet can help .
can i refer to acet even if i am using other service ?
yes .
acet work with partner , family , friend and other voluntary and statutory organisation to ensure that people get all the care they need in the way that they need it .
we work closely with gp 's and clinic to ensure co-operation and efficiency for every situation .
is acet 's service confidential ?
our service is completely confidential and only with your permission do we liaise with others involved in your case .
what do others say ?
‘ one of the nurse ha been coming in to give me injection every day .
they 've liaised with other organisation to make sure i 've got somebody coming in , even if it 's only to make me something to eat .
i do n't know what i 'd do with them . ’
tony c london w4
what do i do now ?
telephone janet sutton during office hour if you would like to know more about u , and how we might be able to help you .
the number is : wandsworth office :
081 840 7879
071 498 7588
acet home care team
what is acet ?
we are a national charity , founded in 1988 , dedicated to providing care at home for men , woman and child with aids/hiv related illness .
this leaflet explains how acet home care in london would help you , or someone you know .
a christian response to aid aid care education and training
why do we need a christian response to aid ?
aid is the biggest health challenge we have had to face this century .
already more child may be dying with aid than from famine and 11 million are carrying the virus hiv , 1 in 250 of all adult worldwide .
aid touch area of sickness , death and personal behaviour .
it brings out prejudice and fear , and people with the disease are often isolated and rejected .
meanwhile health campaign have largely failed so far to change behaviour .
the church should be able to respond to these urgent need more effectively than any other group and provide clear leadership .
the church can give care and compassion to those affected by aid and help prevent infection .
volunteer provide transport daysit nightsit housework cook collect prescription befriend
acet home care
acet is a christian response to aid .
we are the largest independent provider of practical home care to people with hiv/aids in the u.k. from 7 regional office we have provided practical care to over 1000 people in the lat 3 year and in the last 12 month we cared for at least 1 in 5 of those who died of aid in the u.k .
our home care team are made up of doctor and nurse backed by a network of trained and active volunteer .
our staff and volunteer are drawn from church of all denomination .
without their commitment we would not be able to provide such an extensive service .
regional office london edinburgh glasgow dundee portsmouth northampton belfast kampala , uganda constanta , romania
school education
sexual activity among teenager is increasing fast — even in our church .
a recent survey of church youth group show that 1 in 4 have had sex by the time they are eighteen year old , 1 in 10 under the age of sixteen .
outside the church the statistic are higher still .
prevention of infection is a major part of our response to hiv/aids and we are the largest independent provider of school class on aid .
our aim is to reduce the number of new hiv infection by giving young people the fact about aid and by encouraging them to think about their future .
so far we have visited over 100 school and talked to more than 50,000 pupil .
overseas
by the turn of the century 9 out of 10 with hiv will be in developing country — some 36 million people .
many church overseas are struggling to meet the aid challenge .
in some country one third of all adult in town and city are already infected .
the effect in the future will be devastating .
acet 's work with the church in africa and romania ha been recognised and supported by unicef , the world health organisation and by tear fund .
we run training programme in romania and support care and prevention programme in uganda and tanzania .
what can your church do ?
your church can become a partner with acet .
if we are to continue to meet the rapidly growing need of those who look to u for care and prevention , we urgently need you to share the challenge with u .
this is why we are asking your church to link with acet in a christian response to aid both at home and overseas .
church working together
acet can help your church with
•
speaker for service , seminar or workshop .
•
training church member a community volunteer .
•
information , newsletter and advice .
acet can help your church with
•
making member aware of our work .
•
appointing a member of your church a an acet-link representative .
•
encouraging volunteer involvement .
•
supporting u financially .
•
praying regularly .
acet aim
•
to provide practical care and support to men , woman and child with aid , irrespective of race , religion , lifestyle , sexual orientation or any other factor .
•
to reduce the number of new hiv infection by giving young people the fact about aid .
•
to help provide a local response to a global problem .
•
to equip the church to make an effective christian response to aid , respecting the historic teaching of the church and providing unconditional care .
patron : the most reverend and right honourable the lord archbishop of canterbury dr george carey bd mth phd cliff richard obe general eva burrow oa head of salvation army
on behalf of a client
‘ on behalf of the family of my late brother , robert , i wish to thank you for the compassion and care shown to him by your organization during his long and difficult illness .
please convey our gratitude to the volunteer concerned .
robert found peace and assurance before his death and i believe such wa achieved partly by the demonstration of the love of jesus shown by you . ’
on behalf of a client
‘ thank you for all the help you gave to u and to bob during the last few day of his illness — i only wish we 'd been put in touch with acet sooner .
i wa particularly impressed by the way you managed to organise all the available service so efficiently — just at the time when we were beginning to wonder how we 'd manage . ’
dr s j bowcock former senior registrar in haematology , hammersmith hospital
‘ i would like to thank you and your team for all the effort and resource you have put into providing a home care service for our patient .
your team ha been invaluable in providing psychological a well a practical support for these patient which have been grossly lacking through the conventional channel .
i hope that you might be able to continue to help our patient in this manner . ’
villiers high school
